Have you ever said, "I'll do it
tomorrow," and tomorrow never comes.
>> You know you should study, exercise, or
finish your work, but you just don't
feel like it.
>> Why is starting so hard, and how can you
take action even when you feel lazy?
>> Today, we're talking about
self-discipline, simple, practical ways
to do what needs to be done.
>> Stay with us because one small idea in
this episode might change your week.
Let's begin.
>> Hello everyone and welcome back to Mr.
English Channel where learning English
is easy and fun. I'm Emily.
>> Hello Emily. And hello to all our
fantastic friends listening at home, in
the car, or maybe at the gym. It is so
wonderful to be here with you today. It
really is. How are you today, Paul? You
look m You look very awake.
>> Thank you, Emily. I feel awake now, but
this morning uh this morning was a
different story.
>> Oh, tell me more. What happened?
>> Well, my alarm clock went off at 6:00.
Beep beep beep. And I looked out the
window. It was dark. It was cold. And my
bed, Emily, my bed was so warm and soft.
>> I know that feeling. It is the best
feeling in the world.
>> Exactly. My brain said, "Paul, stay in
bed. Sleep for one more hour. It's
okay." I really, really didn't want to
get up.
>> So, what did you do? Did you stay in
bed?
>> I almost did, but then I thought about
our topic for today and I used a little
trick. I stood up. I put on my shoes and
now I am here with my tea.
>> Good job, Paul. That is amazing. And
that is actually our topic today.
>> It is.
>> Yes. Today we are talking about
self-discipline or in simple words, how
to do things when you really don't feel
like doing them.
>> Wow, that is a very important topic. I
think everyone has days where they feel
a little lazy.
>> Oh, definitely. Even me. Uh, no, not
you, Emily. You are always so busy and
happy.
>> Trust me, Paul, I have my lazy days,
too. But before we dive into our secrets
for staying strong, we have a small
favor to ask our lovely listeners.
>> Yes, if you enjoy our conversations and
you want to help us, please click that
like button right now. It's like giving
us a high five,
>> a digital high five. And please
subscribe to the Mr. English channel. We
want you to be part of our family and
never miss a chat.
>> And if you have a friend who wants to
learn English and maybe needs a little
help with being productive, share this
episode with them. It helps us grow.
>> Thank you so much, everyone. Okay, Paul.
Self-discipline. It sounds like a big
scary word, doesn't it?
>> It does. It sounds like a teacher at
school telling me to sit straight and be
quiet.
Right. But it's not scary. It's actually
a superpower. It's about being the boss
of your own brain.
>> I like that. I am the boss. But
sometimes my brain is a very bad
employee. It wants to watch TV and eat
chocolate all day.
>> My brain too, especially when I have to
do the dishes or clean the house. I look
at the kitchen and I think maybe
tomorrow. So, how do we stop saying
maybe tomorrow? What is the first step?
>> Well, like we always say, start very
very small.
>> Small like 1 minute small.
>> Yes. There is a great rule called the
fiveinut rule.
>> 5 minutes? That's nothing. I can brush
my teeth in 5 minutes.
>> Exactly. When you have a job to do and
you feel very lazy, tell yourself, I
will only do this for 5 minutes. Just
five. After five minutes, I can stop.
>> H. So, if I have a big book to read for
my English class, I just say, "I will
read for five minutes."
>> Yes. Usually, the hardest part is just
starting. Once you start, your brain
says, "Oh, this isn't so bad. I can do
five more minutes." And then before you
know it, the job is finished.
>> That is so smart. I used that this
morning with my exercise. I told myself,
"Paul, just put on your gym clothes.
That's it." And once I had my shoes on,
I thought, "Well, I am dressed already.
I might as well move a little."
>> See, you used self-discipline without
even knowing the word.
>> I am a natural. But Emily, I had a funny
situation yesterday.
>> Oh, what happened?
>> Well, I wanted to practice my English
writing. I sat down at my desk. I had my
pen. I had my notebook. I was ready.
That sounds perfect.
>> It was for 2 minutes. Then I saw a small
spider on the wall.
>> A spider? Oh no.
>> Yes. And I watched the spider for 10
minutes. I wondered where is he going?
Does he have a family? Is he hungry?
Then I checked my phone to see if
spiders like coffee. And 1 hour later, I
realized I wrote zero words in my
notebook.
Oh, Paul, that is the distraction trap.
We all fall into it. The spider was much
more interesting than the writing.
>> It was. He was a very fast spider. But I
felt bad after. I felt like I failed.
>> And that is a big mistake, Paul. When we
have a bad day or we get distracted, we
shouldn't be mean to ourselves.
>> Really, I shouldn't say, Paul, you are
lazy. No, because when you are mean to
yourself, you feel sad. And when you
feel sad, you want to eat more chocolate
and watch more TV to feel better. It's a
circle.
>> Ah, I see. So, I should say, "It's okay,
Paul. You liked the spider. Now, let's
try again for 5 minutes."
>> Exactly. Be a kind boss to yourself.
>> I like being a kind boss. It feels much
better.
>> You know, I had a small problem this
week, too. I am trying to learn how to
play the guitar.
>> The guitar? Wow, Emily, that is so cool.
Are you a rock star now?
>> Not yet. Far from it. My fingers really
hurt when I press the strings. On
Tuesday, I looked at my guitar and I
thought, I don't want to play. It hurts
and I am tired. And the movie on Netflix
is very good.
>> So, did you watch the movie?
>> I did. I watched the whole movie. I
didn't touch the guitar once. Oh, so you
lost your discipline.
>> Yes, for one night. But the next day I
didn't give up. I didn't say I am bad at
guitar. I just said yesterday was for
movies. Today is for music. And I played
for 10 minutes.
>> That's the spirit. It's not about being
perfect every day. It's about coming
back.
>> Yes. If you are still listening to us
right now, you are already practicing
self-discipline. You are choosing to
learn English instead of doing something
else.
>> That's true. You guys are amazing.
>> Hey Paul, let's give him a little
challenge. If you are still listening,
comment I can do it in the comments
below.
>> Oh, I like that. I can do it. It's a
strong sentence.
>> It is. It reminds your brain who is the
boss.
>> You know, Emily, I think another big
secret is the why.
>> The why? What do you mean? Well, why do
I want to wake up early? Why do I want
to learn English? If I don't have a
reason, it is very hard to stay
disciplined.
>> That is so true. For me, with the
guitar, my why is that I want to sing
songs with my friends at my birthday
party.
>> Oh, that is a beautiful reason. When you
feel lazy, you can imagine your friends
smiling and singing with you.
>> Exactly. It makes the work feel like a
path to a dream. For our listeners,
maybe their why is a better job or
traveling to a new country or making new
friends.
>> Yes. When you don't want to study, think
about that dream. Imagine yourself
speaking English perfectly at an airport
or in a meeting. It gives you a little
push of energy.
>> I need that push sometimes, especially
when grammar gets difficult. Grammar is
like the spider. I want to look away.
>> Don't look away, Paul. Just remember the
fiveinut rule. Five minutes of grammar
is easy.
>> You're right. Five minutes. I can do
that.
>> Another thing that helps me is my
environment.
>> Your environment? Like the trees and the
birds?
>> No, silly. I mean the things around me.
If I want to eat healthy, but my table
is full of cookies, what do you think
will happen?
>> H I think the cookies will disappear
very fast.
>> Exactly. My discipline is not strong
enough to fight a cookie. So, I hide the
cookies in a high cupboard and I put an
apple on the table.
>> Oh, so you make the good thing easy and
the bad thing hard.
>> Yes, it's a trick. If you want to study
English, put your notebook on your
pillow in the morning. When you go to
bed, you will see it and think, "Okay,
just 5 minutes."
>> That is brilliant. I am going to put my
gym shoes right in front of my door. So,
I have to step over them to go to the
kitchen.
>> Perfect. You can't ignore them if you
trip over them.
>> Exactly. Oh, hello shoes. I guess we are
going for a walk.
>> That's the way to do it. You know, Paul,
sometimes self-discipline is also about
saying no to other people.
>> Oh, that is hard. I like saying yes. I
like my friends. I know, but if your
friend calls and says, "Paul, let's play
video games for 5 hours and you know you
have to finish your report." What do you
do?
>> H I usually say, "Okay, let's play." And
then I stay up until 2:00 in the morning
finishing my report. Then I am tired and
grumpy the next day.
>> See, that is not good for you.
Self-discipline is saying, "I would love
to play, but first I need 1 hour for my
work. Can we play at 8:00 instead?"
That sounds very professional, Emily. I
should try that. It's not saying no
forever. It's just saying not now.
>> Exactly. You are protecting your time.
Your time is valuable.
>> You know, I feel much more powerful now.
Like I have a shield against laziness.
>> You do. And the more you use it, the
stronger it gets. It's like a muscle.
The first time you go to the gym, it's
very hard. The 10th time, it's a little
easier. And after a year, you were a
superhero.
>> Maybe at least a superhero of your own
life.
>> I like that, Paul. The conversation
superhero. My power is talking about
things.
>> And you are very good at it. But
remember, even superheroes need to rest.
>> Oh, good. I was worried you were going
to tell me to work 24 hours a day.
>> No way. Rest is part of discipline. If
you don't rest, your brain gets tired.
And a tired brain is a lazy brain.
>> So sleeping is actually me being
disciplined.
>> If you sleep at the right time, yes,
going to bed early so you have energy
for tomorrow is a very disciplined thing
to do.
>> Wow. I am going to be very disciplined
tonight at 1000 p.m. Then I will sleep
so hard.
>> Good plan, Paul.
>> We talked about so many things today,
Emily. My head is full of ideas.
>> It was a great talk. Let's see if we can
remember the main points for our
friends.
>> Okay, I'll start. Point number one,
start small. Use the 5-minut rule. Just
start.
>> Yes. And point number two, be kind to
yourself. If you get distracted by a
spider or a movie, don't worry. Just try
again later.
>> Poor spider. Point number three,
remember your why. Why are you doing
this? What is your dream?
>> Perfect. And point number four, change
your environment. Make the good things
easy and the bad things difficult. Hide
those cookies.
>> And point number five, it's okay to say
not now to friends so you can finish
your goals. And don't forget to rest.
>> You have a great memory, Paul. See, you
are already more disciplined.
>> I feel it. I really do. I hope our
listeners feel it, too. I'm sure they
do. It's all about those small steps.
One word, one minute, one day at a time.
>> Well, Emily, I think that is all the
time we have for today. I need to go and
h I need to go and wash my car. I don't
want to, but I will do it for 5 minutes.
>> That's the spirit. Let us know how it
goes.
>> I will. And to everyone listening, thank
you for being here with us. We love
spending this time with you.
>> Yes. Thank you so much. Don't forget to
leave your comment. I can do it. We love
to read them.
>> And please, if you haven't yet, give us
a like and subscribe to Mr. English
Channel. It means the world to us.
>> Share this episode with someone who
needs a little boost today. Let's spread
the positive energy.
>> Until next time, stay strong, stay
happy, and keep practicing.
>> Goodbye for now.
>> Bye-bye everyone. See you in the next
episode.